A building constructed with steel reinforced concrete can withstand powerful earthquakes.
A tree with strong, deep roots can remain standing in the face of many powerful storms.
An athlete made powerful by rigorous training can successfully complete a de-cathlon, a
ten-event athletic contest.
Well, just as a building, a tree, and an athlete can be powerful, we as Jehovah's people
can be powerful by means of our faith.
And we will discuss during this talk how faith, a product of Holy Spirit, the most powerful force in the universe,
can reinforce fortify us for any, and I mean any test trial or temptation that comes our way.
Now, even though we may not feel powerful physically or emotionally, our faith can make us powerful spiritually.
And spiritual power is much more valuable than physical or emotional power.
With spiritual power, we can be like Abraham.
Please go to Romans chapter 4, and notice what was said about Abraham beginning in verse number 18.
Although beyond hope, yet based on hope, he had faith that he would become the father of many nations according to what had been said,
so your offspring will be.
And although he did not grow weak in faith, he considered his own body.
Now as good as dead since he was about a hundred years old, as well as the deadness of the womb of Sarah.
But because of the promise of God, he did not waver in a lack of faith.
But he noticed, became powerful by his faith, giving God glory and being fully convinced that what he Jehovah had promised,
he Jehovah was also able to do.
Even though almost 100 years old and likely Abraham would have been frail physically and emotionally weak at times,
his faith made him powerful.
In fact, his faith made him so powerful that he believed this extraordinary promise with all his heart that his almost 90-year-old wife Sarah would give birth to a son.
And they would definitely come true.
And even though that promise was unbelievable from a human standpoint, he had no doubt whatsoever.
Well likewise, if our faith makes us powerful, we will fully believe all of Jehovah's promises no matter how extraordinary they may seem.
We will do so without doubting whatsoever.
But now think about this comparison to Abraham.
An older frail, chronically ill servant of Jehovah, may seem weak.
But outward appearance can be very deceptive.
If that one has been empowered by faith, then he is truly strong just like Abraham.
And this wonderful convention was designed to fortify our faith so that it will empower us to be so strong,
that we will be able to endure whatever test, trial, temptation comes against us.
And there will actually be no breaking point to our integrity.
But now let's talk about how each day of our convention and our outstanding drama have strengthened our faith.
First, let's talk about Friday.
The day's theme was a quote from Luke 17.5,
Give us more faith.
Now these were the humble words of Jesus Apostles who recognized their need for more faith.
And they were humbly pleading for such.
Well, we feel the same way, don't we?
We know we need more faith.
And we humbly ask Jehovah for it.
But now the question is, will Jehovah answer our pleas for more faith?
Yes, he will.
And Friday reveal some of the ways Jehovah answers our humble plea for more faith.
As illuminated on Friday, Jehovah gives us faith primarily by means of two books,
The Bible and the Book of Creation.
The first symposium showed how the Bible builds faith in God's existence.
It builds faith in itself.
That is the word of God.
It builds faith in God's moral standards.
And it gives a builds faith in God's love for us.
But now we ask that first part, how does the Bible build faith in God's existence?
Well, for one thing, within his pages,
it gives us common sense reasoning scriptures, such as Hebrews 3.4.
And you know what that says?
It says, of course, every house is constructed by someone,
but the one who constructed all things is God.
Now you could never convince any sane person that a beautiful house designed and built itself.
Even more so.
It should not be possible to convince any rational person that all the beautiful creations around us
just designed and built themselves, or that they're the product of blind chance.
Where there is design, there is always a designer.
Now let's illustrate this.
How many times would you have to throw black paint from a can into a white ceiling
until you produced a perfect map of New York City?
Until the paint particle scattered accurately, identifying all of the streets,
the highways, the tunnels, the bridges, the overpasses, and the landmarks, and correctly named each one?
Well, you could do that for billions of times.
And never would you produce a perfect map of New York City?
Not to add a little humor.
Let's say you tried doing this a hundred billion years, and you get excited.
You finally got a city map.
But oh no, it's not New York City.
It's Warwick, New York.
Now you got to start all over going for that map of New York City.
I had to give you a little, little humor.
But say this.
One living human cell is much more complex, intricately designed than a map of New York City.
And one human body is made up of about a hundred trillion of such amazing cells,
all working together harmoniously.
Well, in the second part, how does a Bible build faith in itself?
That it is the Word of God.
Well, for one thing, everything the Bible recommends works, brings superior results,
how to raise children, how to have a happy marriage, and so forth.
Think about it.
Humans simply aren't smart enough to recommend only what works,
and their advice is constantly being revised and updated, isn't it?
Though written hundreds, thousands of years ago, the Bible has never needed to be revised,
yet everything it recommends works.
It has to be from a higher source than humans.
Well, in the third part, how does a Bible build faith in God's moral standards?
Well, it tells us what they are.
It encourages us to obey them, and when we do,
it protects us physically, emotionally, spiritually.
We get happiness, we get a good conscience, we experience the benefits.
Thus, we don't have to learn the painful process of trial and error.
There's a saying that experience is the best teacher.
Completely wrong.
Experience is a school of hard knocks.
Jehovah is the best teacher.
Jehovah is making the inexperienced one wise, according to Psalm 19.7.
Well, the fourth part, how does a Bible build faith in God's love for us?
The most powerful way, it explains how Jehovah gave his firstborn son to die for us
so that we could have everlasting life.
Now, think about it.
What do most people give away if they give something away?
Something they don't need, or at least something they can do without.
But Jehovah gave at great cost, great pain to himself.
Evolution teaches that our ancestors were apes.
How could we feel happy and feel loved thinking that an ape was our father?
But our real father, Jehovah, is the personification of love.
But now, Friday afternoon, we had our second symposium, which opened the book of creation.
And peering into this book can empower our faith.
First, let's talk about the first talk that dealt with the stars.
Isaiah 40, verse 26, tells us that Jehovah created all of them.
And he calls all of them by name.
Now, let's ponder this for a moment.
How long would it take you to name just the stars in the Milky Way galaxy if you named one every second?
A Joseph Paul Rachel Sarah.
Well, scientists estimate there are perhaps 400 billion stars just in the Milky Way galaxy.
So if you named one a second, it would take you 400 billion seconds.
Now, how long is that? 12,684 years.
More than twice the time that has passed since the creation of Adam.
And then you could go to the next galaxy.
And scientists estimate there may be two trillion galaxies in the universe.
That's five times the number of galaxies as there are individual stars in the Milky Way.
Now, you ponder that. It'll really give you a headache.
Yet Jehovah created sustains and calls every one of them by name.
And the talk made to point, if Jehovah can do that,
he will have no problem remembering and recreating all those sleeping in the memorial tombs.
The second talk examined the page in the book of creation about the oceans.
How powerful they are.
But the one who made them is vastly more powerful.
And our powerful God definitely can protect us now and right through the Great Tribulation.
The third talk examined the page in creation about the forest.
And it was discussed how forest have the amazing ability to repair and renew themselves.
And the poem was made, the one who had the wisdom to create such forest,
surely knows how to undo all the damage that man has done to the planet Earth.
The fourth talk focused on wind and water.
And it talked about how Jehovah in the past has used wind and water,
and especially water in the form of hail, to defeat his enemies and deliver his people.
Well, he will use them again at Armageddon.
The fifth talk took a glimpse into the fascinating world of sea creatures.
And we looked at the largest animal alive on Earth today, the Blue Whale.
And what an appetite that Blue Whale has.
It can eat, according to the video, tons of food every day.
Yet Jehovah feeds it.
Now, if he can do that, can he not feed and care for us?
If we continue to seek first the kingdom, well, our faith was strengthened that he can and he will.
The last talk examined our amazing bodies.
As discussed, it's miraculous how our bodies heal and repair themselves when damaged.
Now, think of this.
If you damage scraper dent your car, does it heal itself? Hardly.
What if every time we brew scraped, damaged our body, it just stayed that way?
In a short time, we'd get to looking pretty rough.
But the God who made our bodies this miraculous way certainly can heal all infirmities,
reverse aging, and prevent sickness in his new world.
And he has promised to do that.
Well, the third symposium went back to our main book that builds faith, the Bible.
And we discussed ones who acquired strong faith.
And we discussed how they did it.
And even though their contemporaries were faithless, they developed this faith.
Well, our faith was empowered as we discussed Abel, Enoch, Noah, Moses, Jesus' disciples,
and we became more determined than ever to imitate these faithful ones and not their faithless contemporaries.
And we know we can be successful because we have the same father, helper, supplier of Holy Spirit as they had.
Yes, our three symposiums on Friday clearly showed us that Jehovah answers our pleas for more faith
by means of two books, the Bible and the Book of Creation.
Well, regarding our drama, we asked, how did Jehovah answer Daniel's pleas for more faith?
Well, one way, he gave Daniel his written word.
In the drama, if you recall, Daniel's father gave him a scroll that he regularly referred to.
Did you recognize that scroll?
The scroll depicted in the drama is known today as Psalm 27.
When enemies tried to discredit Daniel, we saw him reflect on Psalm 27, 11 and 12, which says in part,
do not hand me over to my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen up against me, and they threaten me with violence.
When he was threatened with execution, we saw him reflect on Psalm 27, 7 through 9, which says in part,
you are my helper, do not forsake me or leave me my God of salvation.
How those verses would have bolstered Daniel's faith?
Of course, we cannot say for sure that Daniel reflected on those specific verses, but the Bible does reveal that Daniel's faith indeed was strengthened by the Scriptures.
And we know that Daniel was a keen student of Bible prophecy.
He even said of himself at Daniel 9, verse 2, I, Daniel, discerned by the books, that is the sacred books, the number of years, and then he talks about the desolation restoration of Jerusalem, namely 70 years.
But now we ask, will Jehovah answer our pleas for more faith?
Most definitely he will.
And one outstanding way he has done this is by providing us with Bible prophecy.
Prophecies in the book of Daniel alone have helped millions to build rock-solid faith.
For example, the fulfilled prophecies regarding the King of the North and the King of the South have been very faith strengthening.
In fact, let's review the video on this topic that appeared in Brother Kenneth Cook's May broadcast.
Enjoy this powerful video.
Daniel received a prophecy about the coming of two rivals, the King of the North and the King of the South.
How has it been fulfilled?
In the late 1800s, the German Empire became the King of the North.
That government brought its power and heart against the King of the South with a large army.
In fact, its navy was the second largest on earth, who became the King of the South.
The alliance between Britain and the United States.
He fought during World War I with an exceedingly large and mighty army.
He swept away and humbled the King of the North.
But that was not the end of the King of the North.
He turned his attention to and then hurled denunciations against the Holy Covenant.
He removed the constant feature by limiting the freedom of God's people to preach,
imprisoning many and even killing hundreds of God's anointed ones and their fellow workers.
After Germany was defeated in World War II, the Soviet Union became the King of the North.
It worked with the King of the South to put in place the disgusting thing that causes desolation.
The United Nations.
Beginning in the early 1900s, the Soviet government tried to eliminate religion in the lands under its control,
fulfilling the words that he would show no regard for the God of his fathers.
He gave glory not to the God of heaven, but to the God of fortresses.
As prophesied, he used this military mind against the King of the South by engaging with him in a pushing.
Anglo-America competed with the Soviet Union for world domination, fighting in and supporting wars and political struggles around the globe.
After the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, it was unclear who would fill the role of the King of the North.
For a time, God's people there had been able to preach and worship peacefully.
But in recent years, Russia and its allies have pushed back at the King of the South.
Both kings have accused each other of destructive cyber and economic attacks.
But the King of the North has not limited his attacks to the King of the South.
As foretold, he also entered into the land of the decoration, our realm of spiritual activity.
Today, Russian authorities continue to attack true worship.
We expect such persecution.
But we also expect it to end.
Our King, Jesus Christ, is more powerful than any human government.
Soon, he will destroy not only the kings of the North, South, but all of his enemies.
And he will deliver God's loyal people.
What a powerful video.
Has the unerring accuracy of those prophecies strengthened your faith?
We're confident that it has.
And we're absolutely convinced that the rest of that prophecy, including our deliverance, will be fulfilled.
Christ soon will defend God's people and bring an end to this entire wicked system.
May all of us continue to study these and other prophecies.
If we do, our faith and our wise, our all-powerful, our loving Father will definitely be strengthened.
But now, let's move to Saturday's program, which had the theme taken from Jude 3,
put up a hard fight for the faith.
The symposium, successful fighters for the faith, show that many who do not have a spouse
and many whose spouse is not yet serving Jehovah are winning their fight for the faith.
And we warmly commend you dear beloved ones.
The baptism discourse encouraged new disciples to continue strengthening their faith.
And we warmly welcome all newly baptized ones.
Jehovah loves you very much.
The governing body loves you very much.
Your brothers and sisters love you very much.
And we're so happy to have you join us in our united family of intense fighters,
for the faith.
The two afternoon symposiums helped us to analyze how we can show our faith by giving of our time,
energy, material things to advance the kingdom work and to help others.
And we discuss some specific things that we may be able to do.
For example, learn a new language.
Move and serve with a need is greater.
Apply for the school for kingdom evangelizers.
Assist with a building project.
Set something aside for Jehovah's work.
The talk put up a hard fight for the faith.
Reminded us that as is true in all fights.
In our fight, we have enemies.
For one thing, we must reject apostate lies in the false stories of other opposers
which are designed to soar out and weaken faith.
Satan is very skilled at using innuendo half-truths and lies.
So it's not surprising that the news media, which is often manipulated by apostates,
clergymen and other opposers, likewise often employs innuendo,
half-truths and lies against Jehovah's organization.
Think about this.
Faith is a prog of Holy Spirit.
It's a provision from Jehovah to strengthen us.
Whereas doubt is a tool of the devil designed to weaken us.
Do you recall how Satan approached Eve?
Is it really so that God said you must not eat from every tree of the garden?
Is that really so?
Why did he present it that way?
To plant doubt and shipwreck her faith, and he succeeded.
Well, likewise, if we're not careful, doubt can shipwreck our faith.
But strong faith keeps doubt out of our hearts and minds.
But now, talking just a little bit more about apostates,
what if an apostate knocked at your front door and said,
I'd like to come into your home.
I'd like to sit down with you and I'd like to teach you some apostate ideas.
Well, you would immediately get rid of him, wouldn't you?
You would send him down the highway.
But now think of this, what if that same apostate tries to come into your home
by means of the television or computer?
Well, hopefully, we reject him just as decisively.
Second John 10 says, if anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching,
never receive him into your home.
That would mean not through the front door, not through the television or computer.
Sadly, though, some have reasoned foolishly.
If I listen to this apostate on television or the computer,
or perhaps read his book, I'll recognize how wrong he is.
It'll build up my faith.
And if I ever encounter this teaching in the ministry,
I'll better be able to refute it.
Well, that is foolish thinking indeed.
That would be like reasoning if I ate stinky rotten food from a garbage can.
It'll really help me in the future to recognize bad food.
Not very good reasoning, is it?
Rather than feed our minds, poison apostate ideas,
we read God's word daily and strengthen and safeguard our faith.
But now we ask, how did Daniel put up a hard fight for the faith?
Well, for one thing, he resisted pressure to compromise.
But can you imagine the pressure he must have faced when offered the King's delicacies and wine?
How was he able to refuse?
Well, for the answer, let's go to Daniel chapter 1, please.
And let's read number, verse number 8.
1-8, but Daniel resolved in his heart that he would not defile himself
with the King's delicacies or with the wine he drank.
So he asked the principal court official for permission not to defile himself in this way.
So notice, in advance, Daniel resolved in his heart the course he was going to take.
And he did so because he was fully convinced that whatever Jehovah had commanded was for his good.
Well, like Daniel, we must put up a hard fight for the faith.
Are you facing pressure right now?
At school, at work, or even at home, to compromise.
If so, please don't give up and don't give in.
Reflect on Daniel's example and fight for your faith.
Be resolved to obey Jehovah because doing so is always the right thing.
And if you do, you will have no regrets.
Pressure was also put on Daniel by means of threats.
But can you imagine how Daniel felt when he became aware that his next prayer could lead to his execution?
What helped him to stay loyal?
Let's go to Daniel chapter 6 and get some help with that question.
Daniel chapter 6 and please, let's read together verse number 10.
But as soon as Daniel knew that the decree had been signed, he went to his house,
which had the windows of his roof chamber open toward Jerusalem,
and three times a day he got down on his knees and prayed and offered praise before his God.
Now notice, as he had regularly done prior to this, so Daniel knew what was right,
and he didn't hesitate to do it.
And he was consistent in his worship.
Daniel chapter 6 verse 16 tells us that Daniel was continually serving his God.
And what Char explains, the original Bible word translated continually serving basically means to move in a circle,
which suggests continuity.
And how well that describes Daniel's unbroken worship.
See, there's no end to a circle. It's unbroken. Is it not?
Please watch the following dramatization that depicts a brother,
who faces a threat of being arrested. But by reflecting on Daniel's example,
he is helped to continue serving Jehovah with constancy in the face of this intimidating circumstance.
It's still chaos in many parts of the city, with armed soldiers detaining and arresting those not pledging support of the new government.
Are we still going to the meeting tonight?
I wanted to do what was best for my wife and daughter.
But a few of the elders have already been arrested.
What if I was arrested?
What happened to my family?
You're not going on a prayer, are you?
I pray at my window three times a day, every day, if I even appear to compromise.
What would they think?
I know Jehovah. And if I trust him, he'll reward me.
I don't know how, but he will.
Pray that I keep my faith, that we all keep our faith, no matter how this ends.
The scriptures are clear.
We must continue to meet together, even in small groups, if necessary.
Let's just pray that whatever happens, we have the strength to endure it.
Dear Jehovah, please.
Eventually, I was arrested.
We miss you so much, but we're very proud of you.
We know whatever the outcome of your trial, you'll maintain your faith, and so will we.
Are you scared?
I was very scared, but Jehovah helps us when we're scared.
I knew I would be okay, and that Jehovah would take care of my family.
As was true of the brother in our video, we will be persecuted.
2 Timothy 312 says, all those desiring to live with Godly devotion
and association with Christ Jesus will also be persecuted.
It didn't say, maybe, good chance, probably, will be persecuted, guaranteed.
But like our brother in the video, when persecuted, let's reflect on Daniel's example.
And let's fight for our faith.
And let's pray, confident, that our God is always mightier than our enemies.
Let's be like young David when he went out to meet Goliath.
Now David saw the big picture, didn't he?
Sure, he saw how big Goliath was, but in the big picture, he saw how puny Goliath was,
compared to his Almighty God, Jehovah.
In a unique way, Daniel also experienced how mighty Jehovah is when he was thrown into the lion's pit.
Jehovah sent an angel to shut the mouths of those lions.
Now think about it, those lions obviously were very hungry because a little bit later,
when people were thrown in there, they were consumed before they hit the bottom of the pit.
So they were very hungry.
And Daniel would have looked like a tasty morsel.
But no matter how hard they tried, those lions couldn't get their mouths open to harm Daniel.
Daniel also said a good example in remaining hopeful despite old age and infirmities.
But can you imagine how Daniel felt when he was almost a hundred years old
and many Jews left for their beloved homeland, Judah, and he was unable to go with him?
But what helped him to keep his hope alive?
Well, let's go to Daniel chapter 10, please.
Let's see one thing that helped Daniel.
Daniel 10, beginning in verse 18, Daniel says,
The one who looked like a man touched me again and strengthened me.
Then he said, Do not be afraid or very precious man.
May you have peace. Be strong. Yes, be strong.
As he spoke with me, I was strengthened.
And I said, Let my Lord speak, for you have strengthened to me.
So through an angel, Jehovah reassured Daniel that he was precious and still very useful to him.
Well, Daniel accepted the encouragement, didn't he?
And thereafter, Jehovah gave him a thrilling prophecy about the King of the North, the King of the South,
which he recorded for our benefit.
Although old and infirm, this precious man was still very useful to Jehovah.
Please watch the following dramatization in which an older brother who feels helpless reflects on how the angel reassured Daniel.
It all went by so quickly, pioneering, foreign language, circuit work.
There was even a time that I was the one encouraging older ones.
I missed those days so much.
But now, I am the one in a nursing home.
Sometimes, I feel like I have nothing left to offer.
Oh, Daniel, you very precious man. I have been sent to you.
Do not be afraid, Daniel. Your words have been heard from the first day you gave your heart to understanding.
I have no strength. There's breath left to me.
Do not be afraid of very precious man. May you have peace. Be strong.
Be strong. Happy as the one who keeps an expectation.
Go on to the end. You will rest, but you will stand up for your life at the end of the days.
Just checking on you.
Do you have a minute? There's something I've been wanting to share with you.
Okay, sure.
Yes, Jehovah does remember me, and I still have much to offer.
That was a very touching video indeed.
But now we ask, do you have infirmities that keep you from doing what you would like to do?
If so, reflect on Daniel's example and accept Jehovah's reassurance.
And remember that what you used to do is still viewed as valuable to Jehovah.
He will not forget it. And your present acts of faithfulness, even if small, are very precious to him.
We entreat all of you, whether young or old, like Daniel, do not stop putting up a hard fight for the faith.
But now, let's talk about today's program, which has the theme taken from Matthew 21-21,
if you have faith, it will happen.
In the morning, we enjoyed the faith-strengthening symposium imitate women of strong faith.
And in each of the eight parts, the exemplary women of faith who were discussed faced mountain-like obstacles.
Sarah had to leave a comfortable lifestyle for a nomadic lifestyle, and for many years, she suffered barrenness.
Rehab had to take decisive action, a risk of life, to protect the Israelites' spies, and take a stand with God's people.
And thereafter, she had to give up on immoral lifestyle.
Hannah continued to serve Jehovah while enduring many years of barrenness and harassment from Panina.
The captive Israelite girl was forcibly separated from her family by Syrian marauders, but nevertheless continued to fearlessly witness to others about Jehovah.
Mary accepted the difficult assignment of giving virtue, caring for, and training God's son.
The Phoenician woman, courageously and persistently sought help from Jesus for her demon-possessed daughter, and she got that help, didn't she?
Martha, after the painful loss of her brother to the enemy death, maintained faith and Jesus' ability to raise the dead.
The two modern day examples that we discussed in the last talk, sisters Issy and Tum, both steadfastly refused to compromise, despite being imprisoned many years, simply because they were Jehovah's Witnesses.
Yes, each one of these dear sisters faced mountain-like obstacles, but Jehovah rewarded their faith, their faith moved them to expect good things from Jehovah, and Jehovah never, ever left them down.
Well, what good things do we expect from Jehovah if we maintain strong faith?
Let's talk about some of the events that we expect to unfold in the near future.
Now, for one thing, the final part of Nebuchadnezzar's image dream discussed in Daniel 2 will be fulfilled, as represented by the four upper parts of that image,
four world powers have come and gone just as prophesied.
Today, the Anglo-American world power symbolized by the feet of iron and clay is dominating, and more than ever we see this last world power living up to being a non-cohesive mixture of iron and clay.
And just as iron mixed with clay is weaker than solid iron, so too, the Anglo-American world power is weaker than the iron-like Roman power from which it emerged.
The ability of the Anglo-American world power to act with iron-like strength is weakened by clay-like elements, such as people rising up to claim their rights through insurrection,
civil rights campaigns, and independence movements.
As Daniel foretold in chapter 2, verse 42, the kingdom will be partly strong and partly fragile, and we see that more and more evident today than ever.
But despite the weakened condition of this final world power, it will not simply disintegrate in the self-destruction, go to Daniel chapter 2, and let's notice how it comes to its end.
Very familiar scripture here, Daniel 2, verse 44,
In the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed, and this kingdom will not be passed on any other people.
It will crush and put an end to all these kingdoms, and it alone will stand forever, just as you saw that out of the mountain a stone was cut not by hands, that is not by human hands, Jehovah's hands.
And that it crushed the iron, the copper, the clay, the silver, and the gold.
The grand god is made known to the king, what will happen in the future? The dream is true, and his interpretation is trustworthy.
This scripture describes how God's kingdom represented by that stone will crush all human governments at Armageddon.
And interestingly, in Daniel chapter 2, verse 34, it tells us that the stone, God's kingdom, will strike the image representing human governments in the feet of iron and clay, clearly identifying that Armageddon will come during the time of the American Anglo-World Power, the final human world power.
And like Daniel, we have strong faith in the last sentence of verse 45, which says the dream is true, and its interpretation is trustworthy. There's no doubt about it.
God's kingdom will destroy all human governments at Armageddon during the time of the Anglo-American world power.
But now just as the final part of the image dream will soon be fulfilled, the final part of Daniel's vision in chapter 7 will soon be fulfilled.
Now in chapter 7, Daniel describes four wild beasts, which symbolize four world powers that have come and gone, and appropriately, they're described as wild beasts, because they haven't ruled kindly, but rather in a harsh, beastly way.
Now those four world powers are Babylon, Middle Persia, Greece, and Rome, the very same four world powers represented by the four upper metal parts of the image dream we discussed previously.
But in verse 8, Daniel describes a horn that grew out of the head of that fourth beast out of Rome, and that horn had eyes, and that horn had a mouth, and that mouth spoke arrogantly.
Well, this arrogant horn symbolizes the Anglo-American world power again, the last world power. Now what was foretold to happen next?
We'll go to Daniel chapter 7, please. Let's see what happens next.
Daniel 7, and please, let's begin in verse number 26, but the court sat, and they took away his rulership, that is, that horns rulership, in order to annihilate him and to destroy him completely.
And the kingdom and the rulership and the grandeur of the kingdoms under all the heavens were given to the people who are the holy ones of the supreme one.
Their kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all rulerships will serve and obey them.
The rulership of this arrogant horn is taken away, and it is annihilated and destroyed and replaced by God's kingdom.
So just as described in the image dream, in this vision, we see that God's kingdom destroys all human governments during the time of the Anglo-American world power and then takes over rulership of the earth.
How exciting that event, which will take place in the near future, will be.
But think about it, every preceding part of that prophecy has come true.
So we have complete confidence, strong faith, that the final part of it will also come true.
Now there are many other prophecies in the book of Daniel that we didn't have time to discuss that have come true in amazing detail.
But the fulfillment of so many prophecies totally convinces us that we are deep, deep in the time of the end.
Very soon we are going to eyewitness the fulfillment of Daniel chapter 12 verse 1, which talks about Michael the great prince standing up, and it will occur a time of great distress.
But God's people will escape everyone who has found written down in the book.
In the video near the beginning of this talk, we saw Michael, the glorified Jesus Christ depicted coming with the angels to rescue Jehovah's people and destroy this wicked system.
Now if you notice carefully in that video, the wicked were actually shooting their weapons into the sky at Michael.
Now that's laughable isn't it?
Because mankind's most powerful weapons are like wet firecrackers compared to Michael's mighty power.
In fact, in the video, Michael was depicted as coming with no defensive equipment such as a breastplate or shield.
Doesn't need it.
He was depicted only with a sword and offensive weapon.
Now sometimes in our illustrations, he's depicted with a bow and arrow.
Again, only an offensive weapon.
But his offensive weapons are powerful.
Much, much more powerful than needed to do the job of rescuing Jehovah's people and sweeping out of existence Satan's entire wicked system.
But then after Armageddon, the glorious 1000 year reign of Christ Jesus will begin.
And during that marvelous time, the last verse of the book of Daniel will be fulfilled.
Now let's read it.
The last verse of this book, chapter 12, and let's read verse 13.
And here's what was said to Daniel.
But as for you, go to the end.
You will rest.
But you will stand up for your lot at the end of the days.
Yes, Daniel served Jehovah faithfully until the end of his life.
He went to the end, didn't he?
Now he's resting in death.
But soon he will stand up in the resurrection during Christ's millennial reign for his lot, his place in the new world.
But we ask, did Daniel have faith in that promise that Jehovah gave him through the angel?
For a certainty he did.
He had already demonstrated faith for decades.
He remained clean when tempted to eat food that would defile him.
He was diligent in prayer, even when praying meant that he would be executed.
He never stopped building his faith through Bible study.
So we can be sure he believed with all his heart.
That promise Jehovah gave him through the angel that he would stand up in the resurrection and take his place in the new world.
But now we ask, how can we maintain our faith as Daniel did?
Well, by staying morally and spiritually clean, not allowing anything to corrupt our faith.
By praying constantly with full confidence that Jehovah will answer our prayers.
And by listening to Jehovah by diligent study of his word.
Jehovah wants us to have faith that he is our rewarder.
Hebrews 116 says, whoever approaches God must believe that he is, that he's really there,
and that he becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him.
Think about our two brothers shown earlier in this talk.
The Christian father and the sick brother.
The Christian father ended up behind bars, and our sick brother was not miraculously healed.
So was their faith in vain for a certainty no?
Will Jehovah reward them for a certainty yes?
If you are facing a similar situation, will Jehovah reward you?
Most definitely yes.
Please watch the following video, which features the song that we will sing to conclude our convention.
Enjoy this video.
We look forward to singing that song to conclude our convention.
Dear brothers and sisters, faithful children, cherished interested ones.
There's no doubt. Right now, we face powerful enemies.
For one thing, we have a powerful enemy inside our bodies, inherited sin.
It wages an intense war against our desire to do what is right.
Secondly, we have the formidable foes, Satan, and his demons.
Satan is described as a devouring lion, a cunning serpent, a fierce dragon, a sneaky bird catcher, and he's given other evil descriptions.
Ephesians 6.12 says we have a struggle.
The footnote literally arrestsling against the wicked spirit forces in the heavenly places.
As mentioned in our publications, there may be tens of thousands of these powerful, evil spirit creatures in the invisible realm, waging war against us.
Thirdly, we have this wicked world all around us that is trying to assimilate us into joining them in ungodly conduct.
And looking at the ratio, we as Jehovah's people are outnumbered by people of the world by about 900 to 1.
But despite the power of those three great enemies, our faith, this product of Jehovah's invincible Holy Spirit, makes us stronger and stronger individually than all of those three enemies combined.
In the near future, another powerful enemy will come against us.
This formidable foe is a coalition of nations called Gog in Ezekiel 38.
And Ezekiel 38 says that Gog will come with a great assembly of vast army like clouds covering the land.
They will come against God's people.
Now, this could be a very intimidating situation.
But dear brothers and sisters, your faith will make you stronger than Gog and will keep you stronger until Jehovah miraculously intervenes at Armageddon.
And if you think about it, Armageddon really is a rescue operation.
He will intervene and he will sweep attacking Gog away forever with a broom of annihilation.
In the past, faith has helped Gog's people to overcome the most powerful obstacles.
And that same product of Holy Spirit will help us do the same.
Yes, throughout the centuries, just like today, God's servants such as Daniel have been made powerful, not by natural strength, but through faith.
So dear brothers and sisters, faithful children, cherished interested ones, pray earnestly for faith, put up a hard fight to maintain your faith,
and trust with all your heart that if you have faith, maintain your faith, walk by faith, you definitely will see all of Jehovah's promises fulfilled.